Welcome back now we should have a better understanding of what see-I CD is continuous integration continuous
delivery continuous deployment.
Let's review what we've learned so far.
Now you may not have realized it but you just learned the foundational practices that make you a rock
star developer.
Why.
Because you know how a good software project should be set up what tools to use what practices to follow
to make sure that this isn't a small silly little project.
You know what some of the companies do.
Some of the biggest companies in the world do to make sure that they can scale to millions of users
and thousands of employees working on the same codebase.
We saw that having a good code PR system where we're constantly making changes and small features and
having daily pull requests that now get automatically run a with Bill steps and test steps Lanting and
any other checks that we want.
We then do code reviews and merge daily new features.
We then can explore different things like continuos delivery and deployment where we have acceptance
tests or testers that test our software and then we can manually deployed to production to our actual
users or we can have that automated as well.
And this diagram is what most good companies follow this process that takes quite a bit of time until
you actually have code in production.
We write our code on our machines as developers using tools like typescript Lanting and tests to make
sure our codes pass.
We then can have something like a Prete commit Huck that checks our code perhaps makes it pretty fair
so that we have a consistent format with the rest of the project.
We then make that pool request on get Hobb and circle s.i as soon as that pool request arrives says
oh OK let me run some tests for you make sure that you're not going to mess up our codebase ran some
tests.
Everything passes.
You then go to your teammates and other people review your code.
We do a code review.
They say maybe we can fix this maybe we can do this if they don't accept you start back from here and
redo everything.
If they accept they'll merge your changes and to get help.
And in most companies you'll see something like deploying to staging.
Staging is kind of like a practice field to make sure that before we send it out to the real world everything
works as it's supposed to.
We can add a process not an equal staging environmental variable.
And we can have some if statements in our code base that says if this is staging maybe test the speed
of our app how much CPQ you were using.
If it's connected to the data base properly and you want to mimic the staging as much as you can with
production such as having similar databases similar information.
The more the staging has in common with production the more we can assume that things are going to work
once we push to production.
We then have something like acceptance testing where perhaps a tester or a product toner or even Brunow
tests on the staging server to make sure everything works that our new feature works.
And once all of that is passed then finally we can assume OK the code is safe.
Let's deploy to production with the environmental variable production and all is well all is well but
we're not done yet.
We have something called smoke tests and smoke.
Yes if you're going to deploy every commit automatically to production you need to make sure that you
have a good way to be alerted if something goes wrong.
So sometimes a new change won't break.
Production right away.
And it passed all these tests but all cause perhaps your CPQ or memory consumption to go really really
high and break the up.
So you might want to have four smoke tests real time monitoring of your production servers to be able
to track irregularities or metrics that show that something's not going right and you have companies
not like new relic that allow you to monitor your service.
Again we always have tools and you can see here that it's a constant battle a constant battle to make
sure that no matter how many coders we have no matter how big the codebase gets we have a nice smooth
process to have everything flow nicely so that by the time it gets to production we can minimize our
risk the risk that we might lose revenue or users or even just regular satisfaction with our customers.
And if all of this works and we are able to help with this a senior developers while then we make everybody
happy and that's the goal of a senior developer a senior developer isn't necessarily the person that
knows the coolest functions and can write the cleverest code.
No a senior developer is somebody that understands this process can make sure that this process flows
smoothly that everything is working fine with circle s.i we're making all the tests necessary.
We have all the smoke tests in place a senior developer is somebody that is able to have a big picture
view of how we can make this flow from writing code on a developer's laptop to putting it in production.
If you're able to master this understand this then you're able to manage teams and manage projects and
then everybody is going to be happy with you.
I'll see in the next one.